## Pistoia Alliance, Inc.

# Unified Data Model (UDM) XML Schema License

This License Agreement (Agreement) is a legal agreement between you and
Pistoia Alliance, Inc. (Licensor), which is the owner of the specification
(Specification) you will be downloading when you complete this Agreement. As
used in this Agreement, "you" means the company, entity or individual that is
acquiring a license under this Agreement.  By clicking on the "I agree" button
below, you are agreeing that you will be bound by and are becoming a party to
this Agreement. If you are an entity, and an individual is entering into this
Agreement on your behalf, then you will be bound by this Agreement when that
individual clicks on the “I agree” button. When they do so, it will also
constitute a representation by the individual that s/he is authorized to bind
you as a party to this Agreement. If you do not agree to all of the terms of
this Agreement, click the "Disagree" button at the end of this Agreement.

## 1. License Grant

Licensor hereby grants you the right, without charge, on a perpetual,
non-exclusive and worldwide basis, to utilize this UDM XML Schema Definition
(and the UDM File Format based on it) for the purpose of developing, making,
having made, using, marketing, importing, offering to sell or license, and
selling or licensing, and to otherwise distribute products complying with the
Definition, in all cases subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement
and any relevant patent and other intellectual property rights of third
parties (which may include members of Licensor). This license grant does not
include the right to sublicense, modify the format or create derivative works
of the Definition that are not compatible with the UDM File Format, except
that licensee may provide additional requirements for content included in the
SECTION element provided that such requirements still validate against the UDM
XML schema. For the avoidance of doubt, products implementing this Definition
are not deemed to be derivative works of the UDM XML Schema Definition.

## 2. NO WARRANTIES

THE SPECIFICATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS AND NONINFRINGEMENT
OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL LICENSOR, ITS MEMBERS OR ITS
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY DIRECT, SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE
OF THE SPECIFICATION.

## 3. THIRD PARTY RIGHTS

Without limiting the generality of Section 2 above, LICENSOR ASSUMES NO
RESPONSIBILITY TO COMPILE, CONFIRM, UPDATE OR MAKE PUBLIC ANY THIRD PARTY
ASSERTIONS OF PATENT OR OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 1099298.1THAT MIGHT
NOW OR IN THE FUTURE BE INFRINGED BY AN IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SPECIFICATION IN
ITS CURRENT, OR IN ANY FUTURE FORM. IF ANY SUCH RIGHTS ARE DESCRIBED ON THE
SPECIFICATION, LICENSOR TAKES NO POSITION AS TO THE VALIDITY OR INVALIDITY OF
SUCH ASSERTIONS, OR THAT ALL SUCH ASSERTIONS THAT HAVE OR MAY BE MADE ARE SO
LISTED.

## 4. TERMINATION OF LICENSE

In the event of a breach of this Agreement by you or any of your employees or
members, Licensor shall give you written notice and an opportunity to cure. If
the breach is not cured within thirty (30) days after written notice, or if
the breach is of a nature that cannot be cured, then Licensor may immediately
or thereafter terminate the licenses granted in this Agreement.

## 5. MISCELLANEOUS

All notices required under this Agreement shall be in writing, and shall be
deemed effective five days from deposit in the mails. Notices and
correspondence to either party shall be sent to its address as it appears
below. This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted under the internal
laws of the United States and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without
giving effect to its principles of conflict of law.

Pistoia Alliance, Inc.\
401 Edgewater Place, Suite 600\
Wakefield MA 01880, USA
